---------- Common2 ----------


Banal: "Hi Hungry, I'm dad" is a perfect example of the banality that plagues all dad jokes.

Impudent: The drunk man asked very impudent questions to the disgusted female.

Querulous: His querulous nature annoyed his coworkers to no end, as they were all in the same boat but chose not to complain about it quite so much.

Culpability: Boeing refused to accept culpability after the first MAX crash, but was forced to acknowledge their role in the tragedies after the second crash.

Gainsay: After presenting all of the evidence, no one could gainsay her side of the story.

Reticent: Sharply opposing her best friend that often overshared, Millicent remained reticent when asked about personal matters.

Platitude: His congratulatory speech was so full of platitudes that there was no personal aspect to it at all.

Superfluous: The use of superfluous words extend the length of a speech, inciting bordem in the audience.

Recondite: The specific workings of an airplanes pressurization system is recondite information, and is not something a pilot would expect passengers to understand.

Eschew: She stayed away from her clingy ex at the high school reunion to eschew an awkward encounter.

Predilection: Adam developed a predilection to piloting after flying his first discovery flight.

Glut: Stocked with a glut of Guinness, the Irish should enjoy themselves at the party.

Aesthete: To most, the willow tree by the pond is just a regular tree, but to an asethete like Brent, it is a piece of God's work.

Didactic: The manual included in the Lego box was didactic, showing how to assemble each brick to make the final product.

Perfidy: Snape killing Dumbledore seemed to be an example of perfidy, but was in fact, the most loyal act he could perform.

Vociferous: Even the most vociferous of critics couldn't disagree with the outstanding quality of the composers last symphony.

Decorous: One duty of a judge is to maintain a decorous courtroom by ensuring that all attendants behave as they should.

Entrenched: When a habit is entrenched in an older person, it can be hard to undo.

Apathetic: Never being overly fond of animals, Jamal apathetically observed the animals at the zoo, all the while wishing he was somewhere else.

Mawkish: I was not a fan of the mawkish sentimentality of the story.

Gall: She had the gall to not let me back into my own house.

Bucolic: The bucolic setting of cottage country has a calming effect on people.

Obscure: Verb: The rain was so heavy that it completely obscured my vision of the road. Adjective: Timmy's biggest secret is obscure knowledge, only known by his closest friends.

Diffident: Despite her obvious brilliance on the piano, she remained diffident while performing in front of an audience.

Conspicuous: After showing up to the event in a gold Lamborghini, her wealth was conspicuous.

Engender: His latest book engendered a lot of controversy for its stance on the Catholic church.

Deferential: He was always modestly deferential to his boss, but was careful not to overdo it, as to keep from looking like a kiss-ass.

Incisive: Her incisive nature made her an excellent opinion columnist, always being able to parse the information she received and form a clear argument for her writings.

Volubility: Volubility (talkativeness) with a solid sense of reasoning is key in any presidential candidate.

Audacious: The nerd made an audacious request by publicly asking the cheerleader to prom.

Germane: It was a germane choice to wear parachute pants to the 80's theme night, as they perfectly reflect the fashion of that era.

Dogmatic: It is always good to be dogmatic while giving an opinion, as to not come across as argumentative.

Torpor: The summer heat induces a state of torpor amongst generally highly active squirrels

Inexorable: The spread of COVID-19 was inexorable once a few people caught it.

Preclude: His tragic leg injury precludes him from walking normally without a cane.


---------- Common 3 ----------


Itinerant: The itinerant nature of his job was hard on his family, who wished he would spend more time at home.

Spurious: Sandra gave a spurious excuse as to why she couldn't come into work.

Vilify: The 2 presidential candidates vilified each other as a means to tarnish each others reputation.

Mollify: Tess bought Mark an ice cream to mollify him after his truck window was broken by a stone.

Fallacious: "But hard evidence in both our nation's history and our present shows that this reasoning is fallacious".

Precocious: The precocious 1st grader needed extra math homework from the 2nd grade to challenge her.

Ameliorate: Despite sweeping reform in the city, it did not do much to ameliorate living standards.

Insidious: It was an insidious disease, the effects of which were noticed too late.

Staunch: The staunch walls of the fortress could withstand any cannon attack from the enemy.

Avaricious: The avaricious man chose to keep every cent of his lottery winnings, instead of sharing it with his family.

Magnanimous: In a magnanimous gesture, the CEO of the company gave his bonus to his assistant.

Ascetic: The man chose to live a stripped-down, ascetic life of prayer, fasting, and manual labour.

Disaffected: The workers were becoming increasingly disaffected with the labour union, and requested change of its senior management.

Unequivocal: The results of the experiment were unequivocal, leading to no further questions from the researchers.

Elucidate: The professor did an extra lecture to elucidate some of the harder to understand content.

Quotidian: Amanda hoped not to live a quotidian life, but an exciting one full of surprise and adventure.

Contrive: The prisoners contrived a way to escape the hellish prison.

Frustrate: Climate protestors acted as a way to frustrate the development of the new oil pipeline.

Delineate: The report very clearly delineates the issues found in the companies processes, and presents steps to fix them.

Incongruous: It seems incongruous to be sitting in the sun with a thick fur coat on.

Apathy: His apathy towards the hockey game was interesting, as he is normally most excited in a rink.

Treacherous: The pilot decided to complete a go-around, as she did not trust the treacherous winds.

Tenacious: Despite many attempts to overthrow him, the governor held tenaciously onto power.

Haughty: Most of the countries middle class sneer at the haughty and holier-than-thou manner of the super rich.

Tantamount: The mans statement in court was tantamount to an admission of guilt.

Languid: "I have never seen him so flustered or hurried, his movements are always so languid".

Heretic: The woman at the Flat Earth Convention was condemned a heretic for believing that the Earth was round.

Refractory: It is currently unknown why a large population of tested people are refractory to anti-depressants.

Ephemeral: My life on Earth is relatively ephemeral in the grand scheme of the universes history.

Forlorn: The forlorn man pleaded one last time for his wife not to leave him.

Panache: The wedding dress was beautiful and tasteful, displaying great panache.

Subsume: Soldiers from many different countries have been subsumed into the United Nation's peace keeping force.

Eminent: Every field has famous, eminent, impressive, or accomplished people.

Guileless: Jonathan was completely open and guileless about his struggles, which made him uncomfortable.

Supplant: Miriam was hoping she was first in line to supplant the CEO when they retired at the end of the year.


---------- Common 4 ----------


Burgeon: His university experience allowed Stephen to burgeon into the man he is today.

Soporific: I had to leave the soporific lecture before I started snoring.

Hackneyed: Their books use hackneyed plotlines, stock characters, and omission of inconvenient facts.

Confound: The plotline of Tenet was meant to confound the viewer with its multiple complex timelines and relationships.

Admonitory: ‘Ah, ah, ah,’ Vic said, shaking an admonitory finger at him.

Implacable: Sam, in an implacable state, started throwing chairs at the wall and breaking plates.

Tortuous: The plot of the story was tortuous and never obvious.

Exacting: Benevolence has to give way to the exacting standards of science, as facts do not have feelings.

Expound: The mayor declined to expound on his decision to raise taxes.

Apocryphal: Some stories of human suffering that sound so terrible that they must be apocryphal, are unfortunately true.

Temperance: As a means to live a minimalist life, Wayne vowed to prioritize temperance, and live with as little as he could.

Forthcoming: Walt was not very forthcoming about how his date with Abbey went.

Abstruse: The course content was very abstruse, made studying for the final exam very difficult.

Ignoble: For the hard-working mother, the news that her son was a thief proved that he is not kind and honourable, but ignoble.

Laudable: The completion of the marathon in 3 hours was laudable due to the difficulty of the task.

Provincial: Life in a small town can be quite provincial given the lack of exposure to the diversity that a big city has to offer.

Myopic: Without proper revamping to consider all the shortcomings of the previous policy, the new policy proves myopic and will fail in the near future.

Reconcile: The arguing couple reconciled on their opinions on the best way to raise a child; instead deciding not to have one.

Ostentatious: The event was an ostentatious display of power and wealth.

Denigrate: In an attempt to cancel the author, a campaign was undergone by a few haters to denigrate the book.

Pedantic: The 3 hour long lesson about optimizing one's golf backswing was a tedious and pedantic. I didn't know someone could talk for 3 hours about a backswing

Incorrigible: The 3-week long grounding did nothing to curb the incorrigible teens shitty attitude.

Unscrupulous: The unscrupulous businessman did whatever he could to get ahead; not caring if he hurt others in the process.

Petulant: It became clear that the patient, fun-loving person they once knew had become a jaded, petulant person that was not always pleasant to be around.

Pragmatic: I find the best engineers to work with are the ones who take a pragmatic approach to work, as experience is so much more beneficial than theoretical knowledge.

Largess: Magida has always been known for her largess with her nieces and nephews, but it also acts as a fault to her own well-being.

Intransigent: The family tried to persuade the girl to change her mind about marrying that idiot man, but she was stubbornly intransigent, and did it anyway.

Espouse: There is a sharp difference between the religious beliefs that followers espouse, and the way they actually live their lives.

Acerbic: He immediately wished he could take back the acerbic comment.


---------- Common 5 ----------


Insolent: The student was given detention for being insolent to his teacher after she asked him to quiet down.

Subversive: The "Freedom Fighters" in Canada are a subversive group that hates the government and anything rational.

Circumscribe: People have autonomy, but it is always circumscribed by the law and human morals.

Austere: Government of Canada buildings tend to be large and austere, with no real imagination or brightness in their design.

Propitious: Growing up in the propitious circumstances of wealth, a private school education and her dedicated work ethic, it is no surprise that Miranda was able to get into Harvard.

Munificent: As a faculty member, my mom gets a very munificent vacation and benefits package.

Hegemony: China is trying to establish hegemony in the Chinese Sea.

Poignant: The film was very tastefully poignant, even making me shed a tear towards the end.

Taciturn: Fred is a very taciturn man. It is hard to know what he is thinking, and how he truly feels about you.

Repudiate: The woman repudiated the results of the study, claiming them to be incomplete.

Winsome: She looked at the cop, putting on one of her most winsome, innocent faces.

Inimical: The inimical waves made boating this morning really dangerous.

Garrulous: The generally quiet woman became quite garrulous after a few wine coolers.

Prolific: David Goggins is a prolific badass that many people look up to as a role model.

Lionize: The relatively unknown Wyndham Clark was lionized after winning the U.S. Open.

Tractable: Being tractable is a positive trait while being managed by a good role model, but can be harmful in the presence of a bad crowd.

Antithetical: The mans choice to go on a run was antithetical to his views that exercise is for idiots.

Vacillate: Unsure of which master's program to choose, Adam vacillated between engineering and business, until he eventually decided to give hockey a try.

Arcane: The engineering team was the only group that knew the arcane details of how the product was built.

Obsequious: Hoping to win over his girlfriends parents, the man made an effort to be obsequious and kiss a little ass.

Intrepid: The intrepid soldiers, facing almost certain death, marched onwards.

Prodigious: I eat a prodigious amount of food, especially when it is something I particularly like.

Precipitous: The end of the war led to a precipitous decline in exports.

Sycophant: In a bid to become the favourite child, Aaryan purposefully acted as a sycophant towards her parents.

Reverent: I was not very reverent or respecting of myself in my earlier days, but have since come to love myself the way I am.

Inscrutable: The inscrutable physical phenomenon's, like Black Holes, seem like science fiction, but are indeed real and measurable.

Gauche: The gauche hillbilly was a little bit out of place at the MET Gala.

Inveterate: Grandma was an inveterate gambler until grandpa found out about it and forced her into rehab.

Pernicious: The poorly designed engine was extremely inefficient, having a pernicious effect on the environment when used.

Brazen: The most recent presential debate was the most brazen, off-topic debate of history, proving how bad of disarray world politics are currently in.